## Welcome to the Radiotherapy Paediatric Atlas (RT-PAL) Project Page


RT-PAL is a set of 3D images that make  a virtual model of an average paediatric patient developed for academic research use.

[[https://github.com/CMIC-RT/RT-PAL/blob/master/atlas.png|alt=octocat]]


This model was generated by merging computed tomography (CTs) from a population of paediatric radiotherapy patients. Full description of the methodology used for its synthesis is published elsewhere (Veiga et al, 2021)

The atlas serves as a common reference frame to spatially standardise this complex population, facilitating subsequent analysis of the population. It was developed with the aim of facilitating research into paediatric radiotherapy late effects. Examples of applications include identifying regions of the body more prone to radiation side-effects (voxel-based analysis), estimating out of field effects, etc.
 
The atlas was built through a collaboration with University College London Hospitals.

## Related publications

C Veiga, P Lim, V Anaya, E Chandy, R Ahmad, D D’Souza, M Gaze, S Moinuddin and J Gains “Atlas construction and spatial normalisation to facilitate radiation-induced late effects research in childhood cancer” (submitted to Phys. Med. Biol.).


### Project updates

Our aim is to make the models freely available for research purposes. Please check back, as we will continually update this site as additional content becomes available.

### Suggested software tools

[NiftyReg](https://sourceforge.net/projects/niftyreg/) 


### Contact

If you would like to request updates of the availability of data and pipelines, or have any additional queries, please do not hesitate to contact us. Please include your name, institution, department and contact details on requests.

Dr Catarina Veiga

Royal Academy of Engineering Senior Research Fellow

Centre for Medical Image Computing

Department of Medical Physics & Biomedical Engineering

8th floor, Male Place Engineering Building, Malet Place, London WC1E 6BT

E-mail: c.veiga@ucl.ac.uk


### License

Copyright (c) 2021, University College London

All rights reserved.

